# CpGIsland_Predictor
This is a script that I developed during my second year of university.
The predictor program has been built using the entire chromosome 22 in fasta format. This file is not included. 
This folder contains different files and scripts that has to be placed in the same directory to be properly executed.
The following programs models.py and CpG.py are the implementation of the model used to predict if a given sequence is a CpG island or not. Each of these programs must be run on python versione 3.7, that, on the terminal should be specified (python3). The first program models.py is responsible to build the inside and the outside model. The inside
has been calculated using the CpG islands of chromosome 22. In the program, the fasta file containing the entire chromosome is open with the name chr22.fa. Otherwise, considering the location of the CpG islands in the chromosome 22, the file that must be open to retrieve them is called CpGLoc22.txt. So the program models.py selects all CpG, use them to calculate the model that is returned as a python dictionary having all possible dimer as keys and their probabilities as values. The dictionary is the copied and pasted in the file CpG.py. Considering the outside model, the program performs more or less the same thing. The only difference is that the sequences used to built the model are taken randomly in the chromosome 22 and from each sequence selected, the value N is not considered. Also in this case, the outside model is copied and pasted in the file CpG.py as a python dictionary where keys are all possible dimers available and their probabilities as values. So, after having run the program models.py, the output, inside and outside models, are copied and pasted in the file CpG.py since it has to use them in order to calculate a score value that indicates if a sequence is or not a CpG island. The variable names for the copied and pasted models must be: inside, for the inside model and outside for the outside model.So this program allows the user to insert a sequence that he or she wants to test or generates one random sequence. The choice is performed by making the user input some numbers when he is asked to do that: 0 to generate a random sequence;1 to insert a sequence. The the user will insert the genome sequence if it has chosen 1 before, or the length of the random sequence if 0 was chosen before. Then the program asks the user to insert 1 if wants to analyse the sequence as a unique window or 2 if he wants to analyse it with a sliding window. If the second choice has been selected, the program asks the user to insert the sliding window value: if he or she presses ENTER, the value is automatically the mean length of CpG islands in the chromosome 22, so 567. Otherwise, the user can insert any value he or she wants. At the end, independently from the choice done, the program will return a message reporting if the sequence is a CpG island or not and the score of the evaluation of the sequences computed using the inside and outside model. In the case of the sliding window, this outputs are provided for all windows plus the range, seen as python indexes, of where the CpG was found in the sequence. In the case of the sliding window, the program tells also how many CpG has been found.

